feat(toolbar): Toolbar API improvements (#10665)
withastro/astro: .changeset/khaki-pianos-burn.md

---
"astro": minor
---

> Adds new utilities to ease the creation of toolbar apps. These new utilities hope to abstract away some of the boilerplate code that is common in toolbar apps, and lower the barrier of entry.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Adds new utilities to ease the creation of toolbar apps including `defineToolbarApp` to make it easier to define your toolbar app and `app` and `server` helpers for easier communication between the toolbar and the server. These new utilities abstract away some of the boilerplate code that is common in toolbar apps, and lower the barrier of entry for app authors.
```

```diff
import { defineToolbarApp } from "astro/toolbar";

export default defineToolbarApp({
  init(canvas, app, server) {

-    app.addEventListener("app-toggled", (e) => {
-      console.log(`App is now ${state ? "enabled" : "disabled"}`);.
-    });

+    app.onToggled(({ state }) => {
+        console.log(`App is now ${state ? "enabled" : "disabled"}`);
+    });

-    if (import.meta.hot) {
-      import.meta.hot.send("my-app:my-client-event", { message: "world" });
-    }

+    server.send("my-app:my-client-event", { message: "world" })

-    if (import.meta.hot) {
-      import.meta.hot.on("my-server-event", (data: {message: string}) => {
-        console.log(data.message);
-      });
-    }

+    server.on<{ message: string }>("my-server-event", (data) => {
+      console.log(data.message); // data is typed using the type parameter
+    });
  },
})
```

> Server helpers are also available on the server side, in your integration:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Server helpers are also available on the server side, for use in your integrations, through the new `toolbar` object:
```
integration singular or plural is fine by me, though @Princesseuh & I did have a conversation re: it doesn't have to be the actual integration that defines your app that uses this. So, plural "integrations" is a bit of a nod to that.

The important bit is to mention `toolbar` explicitly here.

```ts
"astro:server:setup": ({ toolbar }) => {
  toolbar.on<{ message: string }>("my-app:my-client-event", (data) => {
    console.log(data.message);
    toolbar.send("my-server-event", { message: "hello" });
  });
}

> ```

Reviewer: ``````suggestion
```

This is a backwards compatible change and your your existing dev toolbar apps will continue to function. However, we encourage you to build your apps with the new helpers, following the [updated Dev Toolbar API documentation](https://docs.astro.build/en/reference/dev-toolbar-app-reference/).
``````
I think *some* statement about this is helpful here, whatever your preferred message actually is. (Do you want people to refactor existing apps? etc.)
